welcome what I'm going to be doing today
is talking about a series of short short
courses that we've given you in how to
do a systematic quantitative lit review
now this is a method that we've
developed a griffith university that we
as academics but most importantly our
students are found incredibly useful as
a way of actually getting to organize
their material and produce their
literature review so what I want to
start off with today in this first one
is talk to you about giving an overview
of what this method is why it's useful
and how it's worth trying so with doing
this what we've done is we've got these
videos for you to watch but we've also
got support material and this is
available online there's a paper that
we've written about how to use this
method and there are also three examples
of papers that our students have
actually already produced using this and
published so you can access those to
know more about it and you can always
contact us directly if you want to get
even more information so what we've got
is a diagram here showing you that the
systematic review method what's really
good about it is it's a step-by-step
process we've broken it down into 15
steps and basic three parts of doing
that the first part is being systematic
it's gaining the information the second
part is entering that into a personal
database and then third part is turning
that database into a series of tables
and then from that into your literature
review and into the actual paper so
you're thinking why try this method what
am I going to do why do this well it's
really interesting about this
everyone does literature reviews it's
basically the most one of the most
common activities we do and all theses
start with literature reviews and often
when you're new to a field is the first
thing you've got to do is go learn all
that literature so we need to be really
efficient about the way we do something
and this is a way of doing it better
than some of the more traditional so
what we've done is you can use this
method to produce a structured
quantitative summary of the field you
can use it to update and reuse during
your PhD so once you set up this data
as you go through doing your PhD or
working in that field it might be as an
academic for the next 20 years who knows
you can just add papers as they come out
to that database so it's always fresh
it's always got all of the literature
there ready for you to easily access you
can use it if you wanted to do then go
do a traditional narrative method and
I'll talk about that what traditional
narrative methods are a bit more in a
moment
you can use it if you wanted to use one
of these meta-analysis methods that are
sometimes used particularly in the
health fields and I'll talk about those
you can use it for what we use it for
which is a quantitative literature
review and then you can actually use it
for your lit review update it when you
produce your final thesis but you can
also produce it as a published paper and
so it's a method that's got lots of
these pots of uses now traditionally
literature reviews are done as a
narrative style and this is where you
often don't use a very systematic way to
get all the literature you go find
literature and hopefully you found all
that there is and then you put it
together and evaluate in your head and
work out some sort of criteria and
structure and then you write a narrative
form of it where you give descriptions
or summaries now if you're an expert in
the discipline that's actually really
really easy to do because it's already
in your head you already know the
literature you know the background of
the field you know what's going on but
that's not where most of us all start we
start as novices we don't know the field
and so doing that's really really hard
and it's also it's hard to know what
criteria I should use it's hard to know
I've got all the literature it's very
hard to work out a structure to use in
that type of format and then if you try
to publish it you have this difficulty
that you're not an expert and generally
narrative reviews get published by
experts because part of the standing of
somebody reviewing it is knowing that
this person knows the field so that's
why lots of people do them and you can
use this as method to get the data for
your narrative review but it's why we
find that they're often troubles with
students using that style other common
method is meta-analysis and this is
really predominant
in systematic reviews in the Health
Sciences but also starting to spread
into some other disciplines they're
amazingly powerful ways of summarizing
all of the research and a discipline and
making a very careful judgment of what
the authority what we can say with
authority on an area the difficulty for
doing them as a PhD student is that
you're actually meant to be a team of
people and in the case of the Cochrane
reviews and health science specifically
excludes individuals doing them and it's
a team of people who collect the data
analyze the data use the statistical
methods to do the meta-analysis now
that's beyond most PhD students it's a
PhD in itself and it's so
interdisciplinary it's actually beyond
one person so they're fantastic very
Authority but just not something
available to PhD students so that's why
we recommend the method that we're
talking about the systematic how you
collect the data quantitative how you
evaluate the data and a literature
review and it's much easier and more
straightforward and as you can see from
the diagram behind me we've summarized
these different methods we've
highlighted for you who does them mostly
how they're done what expertise required
who tends to publish them and this is
just to highlight to you that you can
always choose one of these other methods
and you can use what we're suggesting
for the systematic part but it also
highlights why we think going on and
doing the quantitative can as a PhD
student really help you out now I'm just
showing you a slide of the particular
three papers that have been published by
students working with us doing this and
one of the things I'm also going to do
there's some videos here that show you
the two of the people who've used this
method one who did as an undergraduate
student and one as the research fellow
the benefits they found in their
experience what it felt like to do it
but what we want to show is that we
haven't done these videos we haven't
talked to you about this - we knew it
worked
and we worked the level that the
students were able to publish so a
third-year student got a paper out in an
International Journal in her honors here
using this method so next year I want to
know what to actually do so
you need to go watch the next video
that's going to be about being
systematic